-   [Markdown Easy](#markdown-easy)
-   [Explanation](#explanation)
-   [Requirements](#requirements)
-   [Example](#example)
-   [Usage](#usage)
    -   [All options](#all-options)
    -   [Output file](#output-file)
-   [Table Of Contents](#table-of-contents)
-   [CSS](#css)

Markdown Easy
=============

Tired of not getting your markdown right?

Want to generate a TOC real easy?

Want to generate local versions of your readme?

Look no further!

Explanation
===========

This script is just a wrapper around calling pandoc with a few
arguments. It's useful for quickly iterating readme versions locally on
your machine. Generated html files will look just like your readme on
github and generated markdown files will be properly formatted for
github, with the possibility of generating a table of contents as well.

Requirements
============

[Pandoc](http://pandoc.org) has to be installed and on the PATH.

Example
=======

The readme for this repository was generated using `create.sh`. I split
up source and result to demonstrate how the files differ and what is
generated by pandoc. Of course, the toc is useless for this tiny repo,
but I included it to demonstrate the functionality.

command line: `./markdz.sh -o README.md -i readme-source.md -v --toc`

As the `-v` flag is used, this output is produced:

``` bash
$ ./markdz.sh -o README.md -i readme-source.md -v --toc
outfile = README.md
infile = readme-source.md
tocDepth = 3
tocOnly = 0
toc = --toc
cssLocation = ./github.css
```

As mentioned, the resulting `README.md` is the file you are currently
viewing.

Usage
=====

Calling `markdz.sh` without any arguments will produce an html version
of your readme for previewing in your browser. Just open the file.

All options
-----------

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="14%" />
<col width="85%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Option</th>
<th>Effect</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--output | -o</code></td>
<td>file path of the output file</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--input | -i</code></td>
<td>file path of the input file</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--toc | -t</code></td>
<td>create table of contents</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--toc-depth</code></td>
<td>how many headers are included in the table of contents</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--verbose | -v</code></td>
<td>print all options</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--toc-only</code></td>
<td>NOT IMPLEMENTED YET. Only generate the toc (and optionally add it to the existing readme file)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Output file
-----------

[Pandoc](http://pandoc.org) can determine the type of the output file by
the extension of the output file name provided as an argument. If you
want to generate HTML output to preview what your readme would look like
on github, simply pass an output file ending in html (or in fact, don't
pass any output file at all, the default value is 'readme.html')

For generating a pdf, pdflatex will need to be installed and on the path
(pandoc requirement).

Table Of Contents
=================

When generating a markdown TOC, I recommend not copying the entire
generated markdown, and instead only using the part that is the TOC.
Some of the markdown generated by pandoc can be a bit wonky on github.

CSS
===

CSS was generated using
[generate-github-markdown](https://github.com/sindresorhus/generate-github-markdown-css)
and then customized to work with pandoc output without having to add
custom classes.
